Int-add-tutorial-sns-x-instances (#2870)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/sns-instances-notification-system/index.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Creating a notification system with Scaleway SNS and Instances.
  description: This tutorial introduces you to using SNS for notifications via a simulated CPU monitoring example with terraform.
content:
  h1: Setting a notification system with terraform across instances using Scaleway's Instances and Messaging and Queuing SNS, through a simulated CPU monitoring example.
  paragraph: This tutorial walks you through creating a notification system between instances, from a simulated CPU monitoring webserver to a notification-receiving webserver.
categories:
  - messaging
  - instances
tags: messaging instances sns notifications monitoring terraform tutorial subscriber publisher receiver
dates:
  validation: 2024-03-08
  posted: 2024-03-08
---

## Introduction

<Macro id="iam-requirements" />

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [set up authentication for the Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs#authentication)

>     You have generated a public [SSH key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/organizations-and-projects/how-to/create-ssh-key/#how-to-upload-the-public-ssh-key-to-the-scaleway-interface) (steps 1 to 6)

Reviewer: Does the user also need to have downloaded/installed Docker on their machine?

Author: No need, it is installed on the instance with the user-data on terraform

</Message>

This tutorial demonstrates setting up a notification system, where a simulated CPU usage threshold triggers alerts sent to an HTTP server using Scaleway's serverless products.
It involves two instances:
 - one simulates CPU load to trigger notifications, the publisher server,

>  - the other serves as the receiver with an HTTP endpoint, the SNS topic's subscriber server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - the other serves as the receiver with an HTTP endpoint: the SNS topic's subscriber server.
```

<Lightbox src="publication.webp" alt="" />

> The focus of this tutorial is to set up SNS in an automated way, therefore all the infrastructure is handled with Terraform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We focus on setting up SNS with maximum automisation, therefore all the infrastructure is handled with Terraform.
```

> To simplify this process, the web applications for each instance are downloaded through a docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify this process, the web applications for each Instance are downloaded through a Docker image.
```

> If you're interested by the code of the publisher and the subscriber servers, you can find the code on [GitHub](https://github.com/scaleway/sns-x-instances-tutorial).

Reviewer: I think the code should go in the Serverless Examples GitHub - there was conversation about this on the squad channel before with Antonio/Quentin (can't remember who - maybe check with them?)

> If you're interested by the code of the publisher and the subscriber servers, you can find the code on [GitHub](https://github.com/scaleway/sns-x-instances-tutorial).

Author: Sure, I will change the link as soon as I'll get a final answer about where to host the code

> # Create the Terraform variable file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the base Terraform repository and files
```

           export AWS_ACCESS_KEY="${scaleway_mnq_sns_credentials.main.access_key}"
           export AWS_SECRET_KEY="${scaleway_mnq_sns_credentials.main.secret_key}"
         owner: root:root
         path: /etc/profile.d/publisher-server_env.sh
         permissions: '0755'
     runcmd:
       - apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker.io
       - systemctl start docker
       - systemctl enable docker
       - chmod +x /etc/profile.d/publisher-server_env.sh
       # Using 'source' command doesn't work in cloud-init runcmd because each command runs in a separate shell.
       # this is why environment variables will be passed directly in the docker run command
       - docker pull rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/sns-x-instance-tutorial/publisher-server:1.0
       - |
         . /etc/profile.d/publisher-server_env.sh
         docker run -d --restart=always \
           --name publisher-server \
           -p 8081:8081 \
           -e TOPIC_ARN=$TOPIC_ARN \
           -e AWS_ACCESS_KEY=$AWS_ACCESS_KEY \
           -e AWS_SECRET_KEY=$AWS_SECRET_KEY \
           rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/sns-x-instance-tutorial/publisher-server:1.0
   EOF
   }
 }
```

> # Use the publisher and subscriber websites to test your setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Run and test your setup

We are now ready to run the command to create all of the infrastructure and resources we have defined in our Terraform files, and carry out the additional steps necessary to test that the publisher is indeed pushing alerts which are being received by the subscriber. The web applications that we defined for each Instance (downloaded from a Docker image) allow us to easily view and check what is going on with each Instance.
```

> 1. Run the command `terraform apply`. You'll be prompt to enter your public SSH key. Paste the result of `cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub` and enter `yes`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the command `terraform apply`. You are prompted to enter your public SSH key. Paste the result of `cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub` on your local machine to easily access this key,  and enter `yes`
```

2. You need to confirm the subscription to the topic on the subscriber server. Go on the console, Instance, and copy the `subscriber_server` IP address.
3. Then go on the home page of your subscriber server: ```http://<your_subscriber_ip_address>:8081```

> 4. Click on `Confirm subscription`. If you have an error because the URL hasn't been received, you can reload the page. It should take less than 10 seconds to appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Still in the browser, click `Confirm subscription`. If you have an error because the URL hasn't been received, you can reload the page. It should take less than 10 seconds to appear.
```

> 5. Once you've arrived to the AWS subscription confirmation page, go back to the home page, and click on `Notifications`

Reviewer: This step is a little confusing to me, by home page do we mean the home page of the subscriber Instance?

Author: on the index.html reached with this url : ```http://<your_subscriber_ip_address>:8081```

Reviewer: I think we shouldn't mention the AWS subscription confirmation page in this step then, if I've understood it is the page they are directed to in the previous step?

Maybe we can have:

4. Still in the browser, click `Confirm subscription` to confirm the subscription to the SNS topic we created. You are directed to an AWS page which confirms the confirmation of your subscription. If you have an error because the URL hasn't been received, you can reload the page. It should take less than 10 seconds to appear.

5. Go back to the Instance subscriber's home page at http://<your_subscriber_ip_address>:8081 and click `Notifications`. Keep this page open while you carry out the next steps in a new browser tab.

6. On the console, retrieve and copy the `publisher_server` IP address
7. Go on the home page of your subscriber server: ```http://<your_publisher_ip_address>:8081```

> 8. Click on one or another CPU behavior, and check on the notification page of your subscriber server if the notification message appeared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Click on a CPU behavior, and check the notification page of your subscriber server. A notification about the behavior should have appeared.
```

9. Once you're done testing, you can apply `terraform destroy` to clean and remove the project.

> [//]: # (# To go further)

Reviewer: Are you planning to add some content here?

Author: For now I don't have much ideas. To apply this usecase in a real infrastructure, the best would be to use K8s. I plan to come back to it in the future, as soon as I have an idea.

Reviewer: No problem - maybe in the meantime you could delete line 301

---
meta:
  title: Creating a notification system with Scaleway SNS and Instances.
  description: This tutorial introduces you to using SNS for notifications via a simulated CPU monitoring example with terraform.
content:
  h1: Setting a notification system with terraform across instances using Scaleway's Instances and Messaging and Queuing SNS, through a simulated CPU monitoring example.
  paragraph: This tutorial walks you through creating a notification system between instances, from a simulated CPU monitoring webserver to a notification-receiving webserver.
categories:
  - messaging
  - instances
tags: messaging instances sns notifications monitoring terraform tutorial subscriber publisher receiver
dates:
  validation: 2024-03-08
  posted: 2024-03-08
---

## Introduction

> <Macro id="iam-requirements" />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Macro id="requirements" />
```

<Message type="requirement">

>   - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A Scaleway account logged into the [console](https://console.scaleway.com)
```

  - You have [set up authentication for the Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/scaleway/scaleway/latest/docs#authentication)

>   - You have generated an [SSH key](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/identity-and-access-management/organizations-and-projects/how-to/create-ssh-key/#how-to-upload-the-public-ssh-key-to-the-scaleway-interface)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An [SSH key](/identity-and-access-management/organizations-and-projects/how-to/create-ssh-key/)
```

> </Message>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This tutorial demonstrates how to set up a notification system, where a simulated CPU usage threshold triggers alerts which are sent to an HTTP server using Scaleway's serverless products.
It involves two instances:
 - one simulates CPU load to trigger notifications, acting as the publisher server,
 - the other serves as the receiver with an HTTP endpoint: the SNS topic's subscriber server.

<Lightbox src="publication.webp" alt="" />

> The focus on setting up SNS with maximum automisation, therefore all the infrastructure is handled with Terraform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The focus on setting up SNS with maximum automatization, therefore all the infrastructure is handled with Terraform.
```

    ```
    resource "scaleway_iam_ssh_key" "main" {
      name        = "sns-tutorial-public-ssh-key"
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
      public_key = var.public_ssh_key
    }
    ```

## Create the SNS topic
	
Continue to add code to your `main.tf` file as shown below in order to create the SNS topic.

1. Activate SNS in your Project:

    ```
    resource "scaleway_mnq_sns" "main" {
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
      region = "fr-par" // the region is optional
    }
    ```

2. Create the credentials for SNS:
    ```
    resource "scaleway_mnq_sns_credentials" "main" {
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
      permissions {
        can_manage = true // to set up the topic subject, the subscription to the topic
        can_receive = true // to subscribe a topic
        can_publish = true // to publish messages to the topic
      }
      # Wait for activation completion before creating the credentials.
      # If the credentials are created before the activation is completed, the project cannot be destroyed with terraform
      depends_on = [
        scaleway_mnq_sns.main
      ]
    }
    ```

> 3. Finalise the SNS set up by creating the topic:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Finalize the SNS set up by creating the topic:
```

            export AWS_ACCESS_KEY="${scaleway_mnq_sns_credentials.main.access_key}"
            export AWS_SECRET_KEY="${scaleway_mnq_sns_credentials.main.secret_key}"
          owner: root:root
          path: /etc/profile.d/publisher-server_env.sh
          permissions: '0755'
      runcmd:
        - apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker.io
        - systemctl start docker
        - systemctl enable docker
        - chmod +x /etc/profile.d/publisher-server_env.sh
        # Using 'source' command doesn't work in cloud-init runcmd because each command runs in a separate shell.
        # this is why environment variables will be passed directly in the docker run command
        - docker pull rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/sns-x-instance-tutorial/publisher-server:1.0
        - |
          . /etc/profile.d/publisher-server_env.sh
          docker run -d --restart=always \
            --name publisher-server \
            -p 8081:8081 \
            -e TOPIC_ARN=$TOPIC_ARN \
            -e AWS_ACCESS_KEY=$AWS_ACCESS_KEY \
            -e AWS_SECRET_KEY=$AWS_SECRET_KEY \
            rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/sns-x-instance-tutorial/publisher-server:1.0
    EOF
    }
  }
  ```

> 7. Check that your `main.tf` file looks like the fully completed example shown on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/scaleway/sns-x-instances-tutorial)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Check that your `main.tf` file looks like the fully completed example shown on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/scaleway/sns-x-instances-tutorial).
```

# Run and test your setup

We are now ready to run the command to create all of the infrastructure and resources we have defined in our Terraform files, and carry out the additional steps necessary to test that the publisher is indeed pushing alerts which are being received by the subscriber. The web applications that we defined for each Instance (downloaded from a Docker image) allow us to easily view and check what is going on with each Instance.

> 1. Run the command `terraform apply`. You are prompted to enter your public SSH key. Execute in your terminal `cat ~/.ssh/`, select with `<tab>` the `*.pub`, paste the result on your local machine to easily access this key, and enter `yes`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the command `terraform apply`. You are prompted to enter your public SSH key. Execute in your terminal `cat ~/.ssh/`, select with `<tab>` the `*.pub`, paste the result on your local machine to easily access this key, and enter `yes`.
```

2. From the [Instances section](https://console.scaleway.com/instance/servers) of the Scaleway console, access and copy the public IP address of the Instance we created via Terraform (identifiable from its name: `subscriber_server`).
3. In a browser, go to home page of your subscriber Instance by inserting the IP address copied in the previous step into the following address: ```http://<your_subscriber_ip_address>:8081```.

> 4. Still in the browser, click `Confirm subscription` to confirm tue subscription to the SNS topic we created. If you have an error because the URL hasn't been received, you can reload the page. It should take less than 10 seconds to appear.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Still in the browser, click `Confirm subscription` to confirm the subscription to the SNS topic we created. If you have an error because the URL hasn't been received, you can reload the page. It should take less than 10 seconds to appear.
```

---
meta:

>   title: Creating a notification system with Scaleway SNS and Instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title:  Creating a simulated CPU monitor notification system with Terraform using Scaleway Instances and Messaging and Queuing SNS
```

  description: This tutorial introduces you to using SNS for notifications via a simulated CPU monitoring example with terraform.
content:

>   h1: Setting a notification system with terraform across instances using Scaleway's Instances and Messaging and Queuing SNS, through a simulated CPU monitoring example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  h1: Creating a simulated CPU monitor notification system with Terraform using Scaleway Instances and Messaging and Queuing SNS
```

Author: Way better

<Lightbox src="subscription.webp" alt="" />

1. Create the [security group](/compute/instances/concepts/#security-group) that will serve both Instances:
    ```
    resource "scaleway_instance_security_group" "sns_www" {
      project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
      inbound_default_policy  = "drop"
      outbound_default_policy = "accept"

      # For SSH connections
      inbound_rule {
        action = "accept"
        port = "22"
      }

      # For HTTP connections
      inbound_rule {
        action = "accept"
        port = "8081"
      }
    }
    ```

2. Create the subscriber Instance's IP address:
  ```
  resource "scaleway_instance_ip" "subscriber_public_ip" {
    project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
    zone = "fr-par-1"
  }
  ```

2. Create the subscriber Instance itself, with all the tools it will need when it starts up:
  ```
  resource "scaleway_instance_server" "subscriber_sns_tuto_instance" {
    project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
    name = "suscriber-server"
    type  = "PLAY2-PICO"
    image = "debian_bookworm"

>     # private_network {
>     #pn_id = scaleway_vpc_private_network.sns_tutorial_pn.id
>     #}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

    ip_id = scaleway_instance_ip.subscriber_public_ip.id
    security_group_id= scaleway_instance_security_group.sns_www.id

    # User data to run the server at start-up
    user_data = {
      cloud-init = <<-EOF
      #cloud-config
      runcmd:
        - |
          apt-get update && apt-get install -y docker.io
          systemctl start docker
          systemctl enable docker
          docker pull rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/sns-x-instance-tutorial/subscriber-server:1.0
          docker run -d --restart=always \
            --name subscriber-server \
            -p 8081:8081 \
            rg.fr-par.scw.cloud/sns-x-instance-tutorial/subscriber-server:1.0
    EOF
    }
  }
  ```

> 3. Create a `terraform_data` resource to wait for the port 8081 to be opened on the subscriber Instance before subscribing to the topic we previously created:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a `terraform_data` resource to wait for the port 8081 to be opened on the subscriber Instance before subscribing to the topic we previously created:
```

      done
      echo "Timeout reached"
      exit 1
      EOF
    }
  }
  ```
This will allow the subscriber Instance to immediately receive the [confirmation link](/serverless/messaging/how-to/create-manage-subscriptions/#how-to-confirm-an-http-or-https-subscription) to subscribe to the topic, and not wait for the retry policy to confirm the subscription.
The confirmation step is done manually for the purposes of this tutorial, but it could also be performed with an HTTP request.

4. Create the SNS topic subscription with the subscriber Instance's endpoint:
  ```
  resource scaleway_mnq_sns_topic_subscription main {
    project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
    access_key = scaleway_mnq_sns_credentials.main.access_key
    secret_key = scaleway_mnq_sns_credentials.main.secret_key
    topic_id = scaleway_mnq_sns_topic.topic.id
    protocol = "http"
    endpoint = "http://${scaleway_instance_ip.subscriber_public_ip.address}:8081/notifications"
  }
  ```

5. Create the publisher Instance's IP address:
  ```
  resource "scaleway_instance_ip" "publisher_public_ip" {
    project_id = scaleway_account_project.sns_tutorial.id
    zone = "fr-par-1"
  }
  ```

> 6. Create the publisher Instance itself, with all the environment variables it will need to publish the notifications to the topic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Create the publisher Instance itself, with all the environment variables it will need to publish the notifications to the topic:
```
